Sar stared at him in awe, as one would stare at an unbelievable
monstrosity, born in a fertilely imaginative mind and portrayed in the
TDs by an actor suitably deformed by the genius of make-up. But this
was no TD image--this monster was real and he was standing only a few
feet away, leering at her, challenging her, hurting her, condemning her.

They knew that she could bring forth no witnesses in her defense. That
was what made the challenge so cruel. They knew that she had had no
lovers since before her first child was born, nineteen years ago. She
had been a virtuous wife, a faithful wife. And now they were turning
her very virtue against her!

"Do you have such a witness?" Justice Klyutch asked her attorney.

"I ask the court's permission to confer privately with my client," the
lawyer replied, rising hastily from his seat.

"Granted."

"No," Sar said abruptly. Her lawyer had hardly started across the room
to the witness seat when her voice stopped him. "No," Sar repeated, "we
have no witness."

"Your Honors," her lawyer said hurriedly, "I request that my client's
remark be stricken from the record. It was not made in reply to a
question, nor was it on advice of counsel." To Sar he said, "Please,
Mrs. Wisson, do not volunteer information before you consult me."

"Why not?" Sar asked sadly. "There is no one. What good would it do to
consult you?"

"Please, Mrs. Wisson," the lawyer insisted. "Perhaps there is someone
whom you've forgotten. Perhaps you'll remember if you discuss it with
me. Perhaps...."

"No," Sar pronounced, finally. "There has been no one. I won't invent a
mythical lover. We have no witness."

The lawyer returned to his seat dejectedly. Sar had ruined whatever
chance he might have had to bring in a false witness to dispute those
presented by her husband.

If the court accepted the testimony of the four supposed lovers,
the case was lost. Even without their testimony, it was a toss-up
between Sar's word and her husband's. After all, records of an ability
possessed twenty years ago really proved nothing about the present.
So what if she had been an exceptionally apt student in school? After
twenty years, she might be different--altogether different. She might
very well be incompetent.

Sar, too, knew that she had spoiled her own opportunity to counteract
the fraudulent testimony of her husband's friends. Yet, although she
was afraid of the consequences of losing the case, she could not bring
herself to lie about her private life. She could not claim lovers she
had not had. It was ridiculous, she knew, in this day and age, but she
was actually proud of her fidelity.

She watched the three judges lean together in conference. The million
eyes still peered at her. They pawed at her body, probed at her
thoughts. She fidgeted under their merciless scrutiny as the minutes
crept by and the judges' conference continued.

_Stop!_ she wanted to shout. _Stop this torture! Say
something--anything! But don't make me sit here like a freak on
exhibition!_

Justices Jones and Schluss straightened in their seats on either side
of the presiding judge. Chief justice Klyutch cleared his throat
importantly.

"Mrs. Wisson," he said, "the court finds it impossible to properly
evaluate all the evidence presented in this case. It is our judgment
that the only way to determine your competence is to have an impartial
reliable person test you. Do you agree to submit to such a test?"

She nodded her head quickly. Of course she would agree. She'd agree to
anything if they'd only let her get off the stand--off display.

"My colleagues and I want to select for this test a man who is
impartial and whose judgment is valued by this court," Klyutch
continued, strangely nervous. He colored slightly before adding, "I
have been nominated.

"Do you have any objections?" he asked her.

Sar smiled at him. She began to relax in the presence of his archaic
modesty--the nervous shyness, the faint blush. Momentarily, she pitied
him in his embarrassment and forgot, momentarily, to pity herself.

She smiled at him. There was certainly no reason to object to him any
more than to any other man. Less, perhaps. He had a gentleness about
him that Sar decided was rather attractive. But she appreciated the
humor in being tested for competence by a man whose own competence
might be questioned.

Justice Klyutch was a middle-aged widower whose first-wife had died
three years ago--from boredom, some people said. He belonged to the
small sect who called themselves monogamists and had no second-wives,
and, since his wife's death, he had been living a monastic life.

But, although he may not have been the best qualified man for the
job, Sar was quite willing to have him conduct the test. In fact, she
reflected, he would probably be easy to convince....

When the court convened the next morning, every seat in the spectators'
section was filled. The room was hushed in expectancy as the judges
filed in and took their seats on the dais.

Justice Klyutch called the court to order.

Every ear in the room strained to hear his decision.

"At the close of yesterday's session," he began, "it was agreed that
the court conduct a test to determine the competence of Sar Wisson,
accused of incompetence by her husband. The test has been completed.

"It is the opinion of the court that the charge against Mrs. Wisson
has no basis in fact. The request for divorce on the grounds of sexual
incompetence is, therefore, denied."

An excited babbling swept across the room. It quickly subsided when
the warning light indicated that the judge had not finished his
pronouncement.

"However," Klyutch continued, "Mrs. Wisson has informed the court that
she no longer objects to the divorce and that she is willing to agree
to the action on the usual grounds of incompatibility."

And, in letters only slightly less emphatic, FIRST-WIFE WITHDRAWS
OBJECTION.

Dag stared at the amazing heads, then began rapidly reading the story
aloud to herself.

"Merl Wisson received a divorce from his first-wife, Sar, ten minutes
after the court had refused the divorce on the charge of incompetence.
In a sudden reversal of position, Sar Wisson agreed to the separation
for reasons of incompatibility immediately after she had won her
unprecedented contesting action. For the record, Justice Klyutch...."

The newstrip fluttered to the floor as Dag's lifeless toss missed the
disposall opening. She sat dazedly, watching the newsmachine disgorge
strip after strip onto the growing pile of paper at her feet. Too
stunned for the moment to get up and turn the machine off, she was
vaguely thankful that she had set it only for local news. If the whole
edition was allowed to accumulate on the floor, she'd have to dig
herself out!

The machine clicked off automatically after a last strip floated down
to the pile on the floor.

Aroused from her reverie as the newsmachine snapped itself off, Dag
stood up. She searched her pockets for a barkastem, found one in a
crumpled pack and slid it into her mouth. She nibbled thoughtfully.

Ignoring the mess of strips on the floor, she headed for the door,
determined to get to the bottom of the mystery of Sar's change of heart.

Half an hour later, she was pressing the call button of Sar's apartment.

The door was opened by a tall, distinguished-looking man. Dag brushed
by him abruptly and walked into the room. She saw her sister at the
bar, mixing a couple of drinks.

"Sar!" she exclaimed. "What happened? I thought you were going to fight
it."

Sar looked up and smiled a greeting. "Hello, Dag," she said.

"What happened?" Dag repeated anxiously.

"I changed my mind," Sar explained. "Woman's prerogative."

"But what about the pension, and the comforts and security?"

Sar laughed softly. "It turns out that that has nothing to do with
divorcing Merl."

"But you said...."

"I said, 'once a first-wife, always a first-wife'," Sar reminded her.

Sar turned to the distinguished-looking man, who had been watching
silently, listening to the exchange between the two women, a faint
smile on his lips. "Ken, this is my sister, Dag.

"Dag," she said, completing the introduction, "I'd like you to meet
Justice Klyutch."